==Create Certificates==

  # Download the command line tools from the Downloads.
  # Extract the contents of the ZIP file to some directory, which we will refer to as _DIR_.
  # Open a command-line client and navigate to _DIR_.
  # Perform the following operation to print out the usage instructions: `java -jar tranche-certs.jar -h`
  # Once you have created your certificates, you are ready for the next step.


==Create Repository Configuration File==

In order to run Tranche, the first argument that must be passed to any main method is the location of the file that describes the Tranche repository you will be using.

Configuration files and certificates can be located in any of a number of places. In general, Tranche attempts to load files and certificates in a nearest to furthest order. Here is how Tranche tries to load them:
  # *Java package*: will attempt to load the file/certificate through the class loader. Example of a package location: `/org/proteomecommons/tranche/pc-tranche.conf`.
  # *File system*: will attempt to load from the local computer file system if could not load from Java. Example of a file system location: `/home/tranche/Desktop/pc-tranche.conf` for Linux, or `C:\Documents and Settings\James A Hill\Desktop\pc-tranche.conf` for Windows.
  # *Internet*: will attempt to load from the Internet if could not load from Java or the file system.



===File Syntax===
  * Some general guidelines on the configuration file syntax.
  * Blank lines are ignored.
  * Comment lines can start with `#` or //.
  * There is no /`*` comment `*`/ support.
  * For attribute names, cAsE does not matter.
  * Attribute names and values are always separated by an equals sign.



===Example Repository Configuration File===
{{{
[GENERAL]
# the attributes that are not set will be set to the default values
name = ProteomeCommons.org Tranche
description = ProteomeCommons.org helps bring academics and professionals in proteomics together.

[CORE SERVERS]
# this is a comment
tranche://101.101.101.101:443
tranche://202.202.202.202:443

[CERTIFICATES]
security.certificate.admin = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/admin.public.certificate
security.certificate.write = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/write.public.certificate
security.certificate.user = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/user.public.certificate
security.certificate.read = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/read.public.certificate
security.certificate.autocert = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/autocert.public.certificate
security.certificate.anon = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/anonymous.public.certificate
security.key.anon = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/anonymous.private.key
security.certificate.email = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/email.public.certificate
security.key.email = /org/proteomecommons/tranche/email.private.key

[LOGGING]
log.upload.url = https://proteomecommons.org/logUpload.jsp

[SERVER]
server.port = 443
server.ssl = false

[GUI]
download.pool.size = 2
}}}



===GENERAL Category===

Name, value pairs:
|| *Name* || *Description* || *Default* ||
|| name || The name of the repository. || ||
|| description || The description of the repository (what is it storing?). || ||
|| admin.emails || A comma-separated list of email addresses to which email notifications will be sent. || ||
|| contact.email || The email address to which users of the repository can contact the administrators. || ||
|| replications || The number of replications required for each chunk of data. || 3 ||
|| home.url || The URL for the repository web site. || ||
|| signup.url || The URL for users to sign up for the repository. || ||
|| contact.url || The URL where users can contact the administrators. || ||
|| launch.advanced.url || The URL that launches the GUI. || ||
|| launch.download.url || The URL that launches the download wizard. || ||
|| launch.upload.url || The URL that launches the upload wizard. || ||
|| project.cache.url || || ||
|| project.cache.hash || || ||
|| project.url || || ||
|| project.publish.url || || ||
|| email.url || || https://trancheproject.org/email/send.jsp ||
|| user.login.url || || ||
|| time.change.check.interval || || 10000 ||
|| time.change.check.deviation || || 1000 ||
|| time.update.interval || || 21600000 ||
|| time.update.timeout || The timeout per NT server request. || 10000 ||
|| status.update.client.frequency || || 60000 ||
|| status.update.server.frequency || || 30000 ||
|| status.update.server.grouping || || 5 ||
|| connection.full.hashspan.threshold || The point at which only a single full hash span of servers are connected to. || 25 ||
|| connection.keep.alive.interval || || 8000 ||
|| status.defunct.threshold || Servers that are offline and do not update within this time get removed from the table. || 604800000 ||
|| update.conf.url || The URL where an updated configuration file can be found. The update will occur at regular intervals at about the same time on all clients and servers. If the location for certificate files has changed, they will be reloaded from the new location. || ||
|| update.conf.interval || || 10000000 ||



===CERTIFICATES Category===
Name, value pairs:
|| *Name* || *Description* || *Default* ||
|| security.certificate.admin || || ||
|| security.certificate.write || || ||
|| security.certificate.user || || ||
|| security.certificate.read || || ||
|| security.certificate.autocert || || ||
|| security.certificate.anon || || ||
|| security.key.anon || || ||
|| security.certificate.email || || ||
|| security.key.email || || ||



===SERVER Category===
Name, value pairs:
|| *Name* || *Description* || *Default* ||
|| server.directory || || ||
|| server.port || || 443 ||
|| server.ssl || || false ||
|| server.queue.size || || 10 ||
|| server.timeout || || 60000 ||
|| server.keepalive.timeout || || 120000 ||
|| server.config.attributes.url || || ||
|| server.server.registration.time || The amount of time that may pass before reregistering the local server with connected servers in the server status update process. || 3600000 ||
|| server.user.simultaneous.requests || The number of requests a single user can have executed simultaneously on a server. || 3 ||
|| server.server.simultaneous.requests || The number of requests a single server can have executed simultaneously on a server. Must be at >= 2. || 10 ||
|| server.offline.notification.interval || || 86400000 ||



===LOGGING Category===
Name, value pairs:
|| *Name* || *Description* || *Default* ||
|| log.error.url || || ||
|| log.server.url || || ||
|| log.upload.url || || ||
|| log.upload.failure.url || || ||
|| log.download.url || || ||
|| log.download.failure.url || || ||



===CORE SERVERS Category===
A list of Tranche URLs. One URL per line.



===NETWORK TIME SERVERS Category===
A list of domain names or IP addresses that correspond to network time servers.



===BANNED SERVERS CATEGORY===
A list of domain names or IP addresses of Tranche servers that are banned.



===GUI Category===
Name, value pairs:
|| *Name* || *Description* || *Default* ||
|| module.list.start || || ||
|| module.list.hash || || ||
|| module.list.url || || ||
|| upload.pool.size || || 1 ||
|| download.pool.size || || 1 ||
|| hash.auto_complete || || true ||
|| swt || || false ||